20.2.3 update (#3)
DevExpress-Examples/wpf-docklayoutmanager-bind-view-model-collection-with-layoutadapters: README.md

<!-- default badges list -->
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_in_DevExpress_Support_Center-FF7200?style=flat-square&logo=DevExpress&logoColor=white)](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/T963699)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->

# WPF Dock Layout Manager - Bind the View Model Collection with LayoutAdapters

> You can use the LayoutAdapters to place dock panels to existing dock groups, but also to groups which are not created yet. In this case, you should create the target group before you populate it with panels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use LayoutAdapters to place dock panels in existing dock groups, as well as groups that have not yet been created. In this case, you should create the target group before you populate it with panels.
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12169834/174016482-6466bbd9-3dde-4776-95bd-ac1423a09875.png)

Follow the steps below to use the LayoutAdapter in your application:

1. Create a LayoutAdapter class that implements the **ILayoutAdapter** interface.

> 2. Implement the **Resolve** method. The method returns the target layout group name for the specified **DockLayoutManager** and the panel's ViewModel. When you implement the **Resolve** method, you can perform any action before a target name is returned. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Implement the **Resolve** method. This method returns the target layout group name for the specified **DockLayoutManager** and the panel's ViewModel. When you implement the **Resolve** method, you can perform any action before the target name is returned.
```

> 3. Assign a LayoutAdapter instance to the **MVVMHelper.LayoutAdapter** attached property on the [DockLayoutManager](https://docs.devexpress.com/wpf/DevExpress.Xpf.Docking.DockLayoutManager) to add the LayoutAdapter to DockLayoutManager.

Reviewer: What do you mean by "on the DockLayoutManager"? Is "on" the correct preposition?

Author: ```suggestion
3. Assign a LayoutAdapter instance to the [DockLayoutManager](https://docs.devexpress.com/wpf/DevExpress.Xpf.Docking.DockLayoutManager)'s **MVVMHelper.LayoutAdapter** attached property to add the LayoutAdapter to the DockLayoutManager.

```

<!-- default file list -->
## Files to Look At:
* [MainWindow.xaml](./CS/DXSample/MainWindow.xaml) (**VB**: [MainWindow.xaml](./VB/DXSample/MainWindow.xaml))
* [LayoutAdapter.cs](./CS/DXSample/Common/LayoutAdapter.cs) (**VB**: [LayoputAdapter.vb](./VB/DXSample/Common/LayoutAdapter.vb))
<!-- default file list end -->

## Documentation

- [MVVM Support - Bind to a Collection of Dock Panels](https://docs.devexpress.com/WPF/11386/#non-existing-dock-panels-advanced)

## More Examples

- [WPF Dock Layout Manager - Bind the View Model Collection with IMVVMDockingProperties](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/wpf-docklayoutmanager-bind-view-model-collection-with-IMVVMDockingProperties)

> - [WPF Dock Layout Manager - Populate a LayoutGroup with the ViewModels collection](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/wpf-docklayoutmanager-display-viewmodels-collection-in-layoutgroup)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [WPF Dock Layout Manager - Populate a LayoutGroup with the ViewModels Collection](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/wpf-docklayoutmanager-display-viewmodels-collection-in-layoutgroup)
```
